## How to work with HTTP based Helm Repository with FluxCD.
HTTP-based repositories are more common and easier to set up. Using an HTTP-based Helm repository is a straightforward and widely adopted approach.
To use an HTTP-based Helm repository with FluxCD:

### Step1: Host the Helm Repository:

Set up a web server to host your Helm charts. You can use a static file server or leverage services like GitHub Pages, Amazon S3, or other HTTP servers.

### Step2: Package and Publish Helm Charts:
Package your Helm charts into .tgz archives and upload them to your HTTP-based Helm repository.

### Step3: Create or Update HelmRepository Resource:
In your Git repository, create or update a HelmRepository resource to point to the HTTP-based Helm repository. For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
kind: HelmRepository
metadata:
  name: my-http-repo
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 5m
  url: http://<your-http-repo-url>
  # ... other specifications
```

### Step4: Reconcile the HelmRepository:
Use the FluxCD CLI to reconcile the HelmRepository resource, pulling the Helm charts from the HTTP-based repository.

```bash
flux reconcile source helmrepository my-http-repo
```

### Step5: Ensure FluxCD Helm Controller:
Ensure that the FluxCD Helm Controller is running and watching for HelmRelease resources.

```bash
kubectl get pods -n flux-system
```

### Step6: Create or Update HelmRelease Resource:
In your Git repository, create or update a HelmRelease resource that references the Helm chart from the HelmRepository.

```yaml
apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
kind: HelmRelease
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: default
spec:
  interval: 5m
  chart:
    spec:
      chart: my-chart
      sourceRef:
        kind: HelmRepository
        name: my-http-repo
        namespace: flux-system
  # ... other specifications
```

### Step7: Reconcile the HelmRelease:
Use the FluxCD CLI to reconcile the HelmRelease resource, deploying or updating your Helm chart.

```bash
Copy code
flux reconcile helmrelease my-app
```

### Step8: More info can be found in :

👉 Step1 : Create a Private repository using : https://github.com/MeSabya/FluxCDLearning/blob/main/PrivateRepoUsingChartMuseum.pdf

👉 Step2: Then using the Private respository as Helm repository , and use the helm repository in HelmRelease 
        https://github.com/MeSabya/FluxCDLearning/blob/main/UsingPrivateRepoWithHelmRelease.pdf



